
www.scopus.com /pages/ai
Cookie Preference Center

"Find papers on keyword co-occurrence analysis and thematic clustering in academic literature reviews" "Show me methods for temporal analysis of research trends and evolution in rapidly changing fields" "What are the best practices for categorizing and coding academic papers for thematic analysis?"

"Find papers on keyword co-occurrence analysis and thematic clustering in academic literature reviews" "Show me methods for temporal analysis of research trends and evolution in rapidly changing fields" "What are the best practices for categorizing and coding academic papers for thematic analysis?"

Creating a plan to answer your query

Performing natural language search:

    What are the methods for temporal analysis of research trends and evolution in rapidly changing fields?
    What are the best practices for categorizing and coding academic papers for thematic analysis?

Performing keyword search:

    ("keyword" OR "term" OR "phrase" OR "lexicon") AND ("co-occurrence" OR "cooccurrence" OR "association" OR "correlation") AND ("analysis" OR "evaluation" OR "assessment" OR "examination") AND ("thematic" OR "topic" OR "subject" OR "theme") AND ("clustering" OR "grouping" OR "categorization" OR "classification") AND ("academic" OR "scholarly" OR "literature" OR "research") AND ("review" OR "survey" OR "overview" OR "synthesis")

Generating summary

Summary
Keyword Co-occurrence Analysis and Thematic Clustering in Academic Literature Reviews

Methods and Tools:

    VOSviewer and Biblioshiny: These tools are frequently used for bibliometric analysis and thematic clustering. They help in visualizing keyword co-occurrence and mapping thematic clusters .
    Co-word Analysis: This technique involves analyzing the co-occurrence of keywords within articles to identify thematic clusters and intellectual structures within a research field .
    Hierarchical Clustering and Network Analysis: These methods are used to construct intellectual maps and visualize thematic landscapes, as seen in studies on Child-Computer Interaction and citation bias .
    Machine Learning and NLP Tools: Tools like NVivo, T-Lab, IRaMuTeQ, and KNIME are used for automatic theme detection and keyword clustering, even with small datasets .

Temporal Analysis of Research Trends and Evolution

Approaches and Techniques:

    Keyword-Based Research Trend Analysis: This method involves extracting keywords from articles and constructing keyword networks to analyze research fields temporally and topologically .
    Document Embedding and Clustering: Utilizing contextualized word embedding techniques to cluster documents and observe the evolution of research topics over time .
    Dynamic Bayesian Networks: Used to model the temporal features of research field evolution, providing insights into unfamiliar research areas .
    Temporal Summarization: Analyzing the semantic evolution of groups of words to track changes in research trends over time .
    Graph-Based Subject Classification: This method uses the publication year of academic papers to track research trends in various subject areas .

Best Practices for Categorizing and Coding Academic Papers for Thematic Analysis

Key Practices:

    Six-Phase Approach: Familiarize with data, create coding categories, generate themes, review themes, label themes, and identify exemplars .
    Coding Reliability, Codebook, and Reflexive Approaches: Different approaches to thematic analysis, each with distinct conceptualizations of themes and coding methods .
    Use of Software Tools: NVivo, T-Lab, IRaMuTeQ, and KNIME are recommended for aiding in the coding and thematic analysis process .
    Ensuring Quality: Focus on rigour, resonance, reflexivity, and relevance (the 4 R’s) to evaluate the quality of thematic analysis .
    Interdisciplinary Collaboration: Emphasize team dynamics and atmosphere creation for effective coding practices in transdisciplinary research .

Summary Table
Aspect	Methods/Tools	Details
Keyword Co-occurrence & Thematic Clustering	VOSviewer, Biblioshiny, Co-word Analysis, Hierarchical Clustering, ML & NLP Tools	Visualize keyword co-occurrence, map thematic clusters, automatic theme detection
Temporal Analysis	Keyword-Based Analysis, Document Embedding, Dynamic Bayesian Networks, Temporal Summarization, Graph-Based Classification	Track research trends, model temporal features, analyze semantic evolution
Categorizing & Coding	Six-Phase Approach, Coding Reliability, Codebook, Reflexive Approaches, Software Tools, Quality Assurance, Interdisciplinary Collaboration	Systematic coding, use of software, focus on quality, team dynamics

By integrating these methods and best practices, researchers can effectively analyze and interpret academic literature, track research trends, and conduct high-quality thematic analysis.

Generating an expanded summary

 

 

 
Insights at a glance

Go deeper

Your BibTeX file was successfully exported.
